doc: Added doc for running ingress/GwAPI in host network mode (#31839)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/network/servicemesh/ingress.rst

     - ``LoadBalancer``
   * - ``ingress.cilium.io/insecure-node-port``
     - | The NodePort to use for the HTTP Ingress.
       | Applicable only if ``ingress.cilium.io/service-type``
       | is ``NodePort``. If unspecified, a random
       | NodePort will be allocated by kubernetes.
     - unspecified

>    * - ``ingress.cilium.io/secure-node-port``

Author: @mhofstetter Do we still need the differentiation between `ingress.cilium.io/secure-node-port` and `ingress.cilium.io/insecure-node-port` after merging https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pull/31646?

Reviewer: yes it's still necessary - as these annotations only configure the NODE ports of the corresponding loadbalancer service for dedicated ingresses. (the one for the shared ingresses is configured in the [helm chart](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/blob/main/install/kubernetes/cilium/values.yaml.tmpl#L755-L764))

These are only the "frontend" ports that are exposed to the user. both ports are redirected to the same envoy listener port on envoy (and distinguished via listener filters).

In case of hostnetwork (were we don't use the loadbalancer services) we only have have the one listener in envoy - hence we only have to configure one HOST port.

I hope this makes sense.

   * - ``ingress.cilium.io/secure-node-port``
     - | The NodePort to use for the HTTPS Ingress.
       | Applicable only if ``ingress.cilium.io/service-type`` is ``NodePort``. If unspecified, a random
       | Applicable only if ``ingress.cilium.io/service-type``
       | is ``NodePort``. If unspecified, a random
       | NodePort will be allocated by kubernetes.
     - unspecified
   * - ``ingress.cilium.io/http-host-port``
     - | The port to use for the HTTP listener (HTTP and HTTPS) on the host network.
       | Applicable only for dedicated Ingress and if hostnetwork mode is enabled for IngressController.
       | If unspecified, the default ports (80/443) are used.
     - unspecified
   * - ``ingress.cilium.io/tls-passthrough-host-port``
     - | The port to use for the TLS passthrough listener on the host network.
       | Applicable only for dedicated Ingress and if hostnetwork mode is enabled for IngressController.

>        | If unspecified, the default port (443) are used.

Author: @mhofstetter I assume `ingress.cilium.io/host-port` doesn't has this default port `443` anymore, right?

Reviewer: @PhilipSchmid thanks for pointing this out. i realized i still don't have this right in the related PR.

in case of hostnetwork all "port types" (HTTP, HTTPS & TLS Passthrough) need to default to the same port. Still to be defined what the default should be - whether `80`, `443` or something completely different (maybe even in the unprivileged port range?). Using `80` or `443` may imply that this is used for a specific purpose (HTTP, HTTPS or TLS passthrough) - which it doesn't - as it's used for all cases.

Reviewer: In any way - there's a high chance for port clashes if the user doesn't provide specific ports for the dedicated ingresses (as they all would use the same default port)

Author: How about not specifying any default for `ingress.cilium.io/host-port` at all and then if the user doesn't configure it to a unique, still available port, we could deny serving it via hostNetwork mode (and throw a warning)?

Reviewer: as discussed, this might be something for the future. It's not that easy to check for an available port, as this would happen on the Cilium Operator whereas the Listeners are created on the Cilium Agents (with potentially different ports already bound on the different nodes)

Please refer to the `Kubernetes documentation <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#loadbalancer>`_
for more details.

.. _gs_ingress_host_network_mode:

Host network mode

> #################

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#################
.. warning::
  Supported since Cilium 1.16+
```

> Since Cilium 1.16+, it's supported to expose the Cilium ingress controller

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This mode allows you to expose the Cilium ingress controller
```

directly on the host network.

> This is useful in some edge cases where one don't want or can't to use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is useful in some edge cases where you don't want or can't to use
```

.. code-block:: yaml

    ingressController:
      enabled: true
      hostNetwork:
        enabled: true
    # For Cilium Envoy standalone DaemonSet mode:
    envoy:
      enabled: true
      securityContext:
        capabilities:
          keepCapNetBindService: true
          envoy:
          # Add NET_BIND_SERVICE to the list (keep the others!)
          - NET_BIND_SERVICE
    # For Cilium Envoy embedded mode:
    envoy:
      securityContext:
        capabilities:
          keepCapNetBindService: true
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        ciliumAgent:
        # Add NET_BIND_SERVICE to the list (keep the others!)
        - NET_BIND_SERVICE

Deploy Gateway API listeners on subset of nodes
***********************************************
It's supported to expose the Cilium ingress controller Envoy
listener only on specific nodes. This only works in combination with the
host network mode and can be configured via a node label selector in the Helm
values.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ingressController:
      enabled: true
      hostNetwork:
        enabled: true
        nodes:
          matchLabels:
            role: infra
            component: ingress

> An empty selector selects all nodes and continues to expose the functionality on

Reviewer: put the following sentence in front - as we do for Gateway API

> This will deploy the Ingress Controller Envoy listener only on the Cilium Nodes matching the configured labels.

Please refer to the `Kubernetes documentation <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#loadbalancer>`_
for more details.

.. _gs_ingress_host_network_mode:

Host network mode
#################
.. note::
  Supported since Cilium 1.16+

Host network mode allows you to expose the Cilium ingress controller (Envoy
listener) directly on the host network.
This is useful in cases where a LoadBalancer Service is unavailable, such
as in development environments or environments with cluster-external
loadbalancers.

.. note::
    * Enabling the Cilium ingress controller host network mode automatically disables the LoadBalancer/NodePort type Service mode. They are mutually exclusive.
    * The listener is exposed on all interfaces (``0.0.0.0`` for IPv4 and/or ``::`` for IPv6).

Host network mode can be enabled via Helm:

.. code-block:: yaml

    ingressController:
      enabled: true
      hostNetwork:
        enabled: true

> Once enabled, the host network ports can be specified like the following:

Reviewer 3: Grammar nit:

```suggestion
Once enabled, host network ports can be specified with the following methods:
```

Please refer to the `Kubernetes documentation <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#loadbalancer>`_
for more details.

.. _gs_ingress_host_network_mode:

Host network mode
#################
.. note::
  Supported since Cilium 1.16+

This mode allows you to expose the Cilium ingress controller
(Envoy listener) directly on the host network.

> This is useful in some edge cases where you don't want or can't to use

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is useful in some edge cases where you don't want to, or can't, use
```

* Dedicated Ingress: Per ``Ingress`` resource via annotations
    * ``ingress.cilium.io/host-listener-port``:  Host network port to expose the Cilium ingress controller Envoy listener. The default port is ``8080`` but it can only be used for a single ``Ingress`` resource as it needs to be unique per ``Ingress`` resource. You should choose a port higher than ``1023`` (see warning below). This annotation is mandatory if the global Cilium ingress controller mode is configured to ``dedicated`` (``ingressController.loadbalancerMode``) or the ingress resource sets the ``ingress.cilium.io/loadbalancer-mode`` annotation to ``dedicated`` and multiple ``Ingress`` resources are deployed.

The default behavior regarding shared or dedicated ingress can be configured via ``ingressController.loadbalancerMode``.

.. warning::
    * Enabling the Cilium ingress controller host network mode automatically disables the LoadBalancer/NodePort type service mode. They are mutually exclusive.
    * The listener is exposed on all interfaces (``0.0.0.0`` for IPv4 and/or ``::`` for IPv6).
    * Be aware that misconfiguration might result in port clashes. Configure unique ports which are still available.

>     * It's mandatory to use ports higher than ``1023`` as the Cilium L7 proxy process `does not have any Linux capabilities by default`_ (so no ``CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE``) and is therefore not allowed to listen on privileged ports. If you choose a port equals to or lower than ``1023``, ensure to configure ``envoy.securityContext.capabilities.keepCapNetBindService=true`` and to add the capability ``NET_BIND_SERVICE`` to the respective :ref:`Cilium Envoy container via Helm values<envoy>`:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    * It's mandatory to use ports higher than ``1023`` as the Cilium L7 proxy process `does not have any Linux capabilities by default`_ (so no ``CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE``) and is therefore not allowed to listen on privileged ports. If you choose a port equals to or lower than ``1023``, ensure that ``envoy.securityContext.capabilities.keepCapNetBindService=true`` is configured and to add the capability ``NET_BIND_SERVICE`` to the respective :ref:`Cilium Envoy container via Helm values<envoy>`:
```
